# Disertation_Project
An ev3 robot based system implementation with an attached camera controlled by laptop to be used in rescue missions.

The aim of the project was to build and develop a car robot controlled by a laptop and attached a web camera on it to sendme real images, I created design at the robot using an ev3 Lega Mindstorms kit and I used MobaXTerm windows application for connectivity between the robot and the laptop. Also, a Net Gear adaptop was necessary to achive the robot wifi connectivity. That was an opportunity for me to develop my programming skills (Python and Small Basic) and my operating system skills (Ev3dev Linux and Android). The project was done totally by me.  

For the testing phase of the robot, I created different programming algorithm. These programming algorithms contain various commands, which the robot must respond. After I tested all of these, I picked the most accurate algorithm. The best suitable algorithm was that one where the robot answer quickly to the commands. Pressing keyboard keys like: ‘w’, ’s’ ,’a’ and ’d’, the computer send a message to the robot and this will move forward, back, left, right. Other key ‘p’ and ‘q’ was insert for change the direction or stop the robot. Key ‘f’ control the medium motor and with this the web camera. The algorithm of the camera requires the engine speed settings. Then the testing process moved to the sensors test. Sensors are used to establish the distance to the obstacles. Using this distance, it was easy to implement the reverse movement of the robot. The distance detected by the sensor appears on the laptop screen for keyboard control and on the robot device screen for mouse control. In order to control the robot using the phone, the distance between the robot and the obstacles can be memorised and used by the program algorithm, but this will not be showed on the screen.            
